### Philosophy of Education

One goal of education is for all students to develop the knowledge and skills they need to become good problem solvers, informed and reasonable decision-makers, independent learners, and thoughtful, responsible citizens who are collaborators and who respect themselves and others. Another goal is for each student to explore and discover his or her own set of unique interests and abilities and to develop the specific knowledge and skills needed to pursue fulfilling and sustaining work. It is my desire to foster in all students an understanding of and appreciation for mathematics as a tool for problem solving. It is also my desire to mentor students who show a special interest in mathematics, programming, and/or science and to encourage them to pursue a STEM related field of study in college.
To realize these goals, both students and teachers must cooperate and take responsibility for their roles. Both the student and the teacher are necessary components of the classroom. If one is missing, there is no classroom and there will be no learning. The responsibilities of the teacher and the student are different but equally important.
The role of the student is to acquire the knowledge and skills described by the standards of the courses they take. Students must construct their own knowledge by creating meaning for themselves. They must be prepared and available to engage with the material and with others in order to build on their prior knowledge and experiences.
The role of the teacher is to design and facilitate an active, enriching, and safe learning environment that provides opportunities for students to construct their own knowledge and skills. To create this environment, I first need to know several things about my students: their level of math skills and prior knowledge, their preferred learning style(s) and special needs, and their personal goals and interests. I use their level of math skills and prior knowledge to inform where I begin instruction. I use their preferred learning styles, special needs, goals, and interests to differentiate my instruction in ways that are most helpful to all students. I design lessons to accommodate learning disabilities, to modify the use of materials, and to appropriately set up the physical classroom environment for the safety of the students. I also design projects and activities that allow students to choose the topic or format. 
### Philosophy of Discipline
The attitudes and behaviors of students influence the learning experiences that occur in a classroom. A positive classroom environment is necessary for students to have a safe, enriching, and successful learning experience. Many factors influence the classroom environment. The factors that a teacher can control include the classroom rules and procedures, communication with parents and students, lesson design and learning strategies, and timeliness of action to maintain control.
Students must know what teachers expect from them before they can meet those expectations. Clear and reasonable rules and procedures are necessary for students to understand exactly what to do and to be successful in doing it. Regular communication, positive reinforcement, and consistent consequences given in a timely manner form a strong foundation for any set of classroom rules and procedures. Immediate recognition with verbal praise will help students see the connection between their good behavior and the reward. Immediate and consistent consequences will redirect misbehavior before it gets out of control.
Good communication with parents is an essential part of preventing problems and ensuring a positive experience for all students. If parents know how their children are supposed to act in the classroom, they can reinforce classroom expectations at home. Communicating progress is also important. Teachers should contact parents regularly to communicate both good and bad behavior as well as any improvement students have demonstrated.
Interesting and engaging lessons are necessary for keeping students involved and on task. Down time, when students have nothing to do, is an invitation for bad behavior. If students are engaged in the lesson and have structured transitions between tasks, the learning experiences will be positive. The teacher can then enhance the learning by posing and answering interesting questions rather than spending time addressing problem behaviors.
Ultimately, students should moderate their own behavior. Fair and consistent reinforcement, communication, warnings, and consequences will be meaningful to students. Students will then be more likely to exhibit good behavior consistently on their own.

### Philosophy of Math
Coming soon!
